## Installing a new angular app
1. Install NodeJs

2. Install angular cli:
```
 npm install -g @anglular/cli
 ```
3. start new project:
```
 ng new my-new-app
 ```
4. include bootstrap:
```
 npm install --save bootstrap
 ```
5. import bootstrap in angular-cli.json file :
```
add   "../node_modules/bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css"   to the styles
``` 

## How is angular linked together:
It all starts with the index.html file.
Inside there is a <app-root></app-root> component. This is the app.component.ts component. Its content will be (re)placed in the index.html file by angular.

## How is angular triggerd?
Look at the script bundels when you open the webpage, using F12. These are generated by angular cli.
They execute the main.ts file first! This will bootstrap the application by pointing to app.module.ts. Here we will import all stuff. ( bootstrap array = all components angular needs to know at the time of startup.

## Components
Single reusable piece of business logic.
Place components in folders which have the same name.
Naming convention: name.component.ts
Creating a component: A component is basicly a class => export class + classname (make it available to other parts of the app)
Add a decorater to the class to let angular know its a special class, a component => @Component (must be imported using : "import { Component } from '@angular/core' "
The decorator requires a typscript object for more information. This obj has a couple of fields:
* Selector => must be unique ( convention states it starts with app-...).There are multiple types of selectors:
	* Element selector: 'app-server' => <app-server></app-server>
	* Attribute selector: '[app-server]' => <div app-server></div>
	* Class selector: '.app-server' => <div class= "app-server"></div>
Normally for components we use the element style!

* Template(Url): points to the HTML that belongs with the component. The Url requires a RELATIVE path. All components must have a template! There are three options: 
	* Template: add a HTML string enclosed by ''.
    * Template: add more lines wrapping the html with backticks ´´
    * Use templateUrl to point at a html file.
* Styles: 
	* styleUrl => points to an external css style file. It is an array, so you can point to multiple files
    * styles => array of strings (use backticks for multiple lines) You can write inline css classes here

## App-module:
Module = bundle of functionality , like a domain. It has a @NgModule decorator with:
* declarations: all components we plan to use => also needs to be imported so Typescript knows it type.
* imports: add modules from outside this module, can be from angular of from yourself.
* providers:see later
* bootsrap: components angular needs to know to startup

Emmet: IntelliJ plugin to autocomplete html text.

## Data binding
#### Types
	1) String interpollation: {{data}}
    2) Property binding: [property] = "data"
#### String Interpollation:
You can insert any expression that returns/results in a String in between the {{}}. You can only use one line expressions or ternary expression. Hower if you enter a number inside, it will still work because the number can be converted to a string.

#### Property Binding:
To bind to a html property by placing the attribute of that property in between two squared brackets. (HTML properties can be set using their attributes ,for example: disabled, angular can bind directly to those properties!) There are also other properties we can bind to ( explenation follows). We need to write a Typscript expression between the ""! [property] = "this.aMethodThatResultsInABoolean()" is a valid form of propertybinding since the expression evaluates to a boolean!

#### String interpollation vs Property binding

## Event binding
	(event)="expression"
    
   We bind to existing html events that exist on the element we are working on and bind this to our Typescript code.
   To pass info about the event to the method it calls we can pass the event `$event` to the method : `(click) = "onEventMethod)($event)"`  and we can use this in our component if the method looks like this: `onEventMethod(event : any){}`
## Two-way binding
	[(ngMogel)]="data"
Two-way binding combines propertybinding => [] and eventbinding =>(). NgModel uses the data of the event to update our model.
    
## Directives
= instructions in the DOM ( the component selector is a directive WITH a template). There are also directives WITHOUT templates.

```
<p appTurnGreen > </p>
```
```
@Directive({
	selector='[appTurnGreen]'
})
export class TurnAppGreen{
	//....
}
```

Some built-in directives:
1. *ngIf = "" (* means the directive can change the structure of the DOM) The element is added when true. When false it is not there, not just invisible!
2. ```
		<p *ngIf = "serverWasCreated"; else noServer>Some text</p>
        <ng-template #noServer>
        <p> other text </p>
        </ng-template>
   ``` 

3.

	
